DOCS-481: Refactor Vision Service (#883)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/services/vision/classification.md

linkTitle: "Classification"
weight: 20
type: "docs"
description: "Select an algorithm that outputs a class label and confidence score associated with a 2D image."
tags: ["vision", "computer vision", "CV", "services", "classification"]
# SMEs: Bijan, Khari
---

_2D Image Classification_ is the process of taking a 2D image from a camera and deciding which class label, out of many, best describes the given image.
Any camera that can return 2D images can use 2D image classification.

Which class labels may be considered for classification varies and will depend on the machine learning model and how it was trained.

The returned classifications consist of the image's class label and confidence score.

* `class_name` (string): specifies the label of the found object.
* `confidence` (float): specifies the confidence of the assigned label between 0.0 and 1.0.

## Classifier Types

The types of classifiers supported are:

* **tflite_classifier**: a machine-learning based classifier that returns a class label and confidence score according to the specified `tensorflow-lite` model file available on the robot’s hard drive.

### TFLite classifier

> These are the available parameters in the classifier's configuration. For an example see [Configuration](#configuration).

Author: ```suggestion
The following parameters are available for a `"tflite_classifier"`.
For an example see [Configuration](#configuration).
```

``` json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
    "register_models": [
        {
            "name": "<classifier_name>",
            "type": "tflite_classifier",
            "parameters": {
                "model_path" : "/path/to/model.tflite",
                "label_path": "/path/to/labels.txt",
                "num_threads": <integer>
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

| Parameter | Description |
| --------- | ----------- |
| `model_path` | The path to the .tflite model file, as a string. This attribute is absolutely required. |
| `label_path` | The path to a .txt file that holds class labels for your TFLite model, as a string. The SDK expects this text file to contain an ordered listing of the class labels. Without this file, classes will read "1", "2", and so on. |

> | `num_threads` | An integer that defines how many CPU threads to use to run inference. The default value is 1. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `num_threads` | An integer that defines how many CPU threads to use to run inference. Default: `1`. |
```

### Add a camera component and a "transform" model

You cannot interact directly with the [Vision Service](/services/vision/).
To be able to interact with the Vision Service you must:

1. Configure a physical [camera component](../../../components/camera) to wrap the service.
2. Configure a [transform camera](../../../components/camera/transform) to view output from the classifier overlaid on images from the physical camera.

After adding the component and its attributes, click **SAVE CONFIG**.

Wait for the robot to reload, and then go to the **CONTROL** tab to test the stream of detections.

## Code

The following code gets the robot’s Vision Service and then runs a classifier vision model on an image from the robot's camera named `"camera_1"` in this example.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
from viam.services.vision import VisionServiceClient, VisModelConfig, VisModelType

robot = await connect()
# grab camera from the robot
cam1 = Camera.from_robot(robot, "cam1")
# grab Viam's vision service which has the classifier already registered
vision = VisionServiceClient.from_robot(robot)

print("Vision Resources:")

> print(await vision.get_detector_names())

Reviewer: This should say "get_classifier_names()"

Author: ```suggestion
print(await vision.get_classifier_names())
```

# Apply the classifier configured as my_classifier to the image from your camera configured as "camera_1"

> detections = await vision.get_detections_from_camera("camera_1", "my_classifier")

Reviewer: classifications = await vision.get_classifications_from_camera("camera_1", "my_classifier")

Author: ```suggestion
classifications = await vision.get_classifications_from_camera("camera_1", "my_classifier")
```

await robot.close()
```

> To learn more about the Detection API, see the [Python SDK docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/services/vision/index.html).

Author: ```suggestion
To learn more about the Classification API, see the [Python SDK docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/services/vision/index.html).
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
import (
"go.viam.com/rdk/config"
"go.viam.com/rdk/services/vision"
)

visService, err := vision.FirstFromRobot(robot)
if err != nil {
    logger.Fatalf("Cannot get Vision Service: %v", err)
}

> detNames, err := visService.DetectorNames(context.Background(), nil)

Reviewer: clsNames, err := visService.ClassifierNames

Author: ```suggestion
clsNames, err := visService.ClassifierNames(context.Background(), nil)
```

if err != nil {

>     logger.Fatalf("Could not list detectors: %v", err)

Reviewer: classifiers

Author: ```suggestion
    logger.Fatalf("Could not list classifiers: %v", err)
```

}
logger.Info("Vision Resources:")

> logger.Info(detNames)

Reviewer: clsNames

// Apply the color classifier to the image from your camera (configured as "camera_1")

> detections, err := visService.DetectionsFromCamera(context.Background(), "camera_1", "my_classifier", nil)

Reviewer: classifications, err := visService.ClassificationsFromCamera(

Author: ```suggestion
classifications, err := visService.ClassificationsFromCamera(context.Background(), "camera_1", "my_classifier", nil)
```

if err != nil {

>     logger.Fatalf("Could not get detections: %v", err)

Reviewer: classifications

Author: ```suggestion
    logger.Fatalf("Could not get classifications: %v", err)
```

}
if len(detections) > 0 {

>     logger.Info(detections[0])

Reviewer: classifications

Author: ```suggestion
if len(detections) > 0 {
    logger.Info(classifications[0])
```

> if len(detections) > 0 {

Reviewer: classifications

> if len(detections) > 0 {

Author: ```suggestion
if len(classifications) > 0 {
```

                "model_path" : "/path/to/model.tflite",
                "label_path": "/path/to/labels.txt",
                "num_threads": 1
              }
            },
            {
                "name": "my_segmenter",
                "type": "radius_clustering_segmenter",
                "parameters": {
                    "min_points_in_plane": 2,
                    "min_points_in_segment": 2,
                    "clustering_radius_mm": 3.0,
                    "mean_k_filtering": 0
                }
            }
          ]
        }
    }
]
```

{{% /expand%}}

### Add a camera component and a "transform" model

You cannot interact directly with the [Vision Service](/services/vision/).
To be able to interact with the Vision Service you must:

1. Configure a physical [camera component](../../../components/camera) to wrap the service.
2. Configure a [transform camera](../../../components/camera/transform) to view output from the classifier overlaid on images from the physical camera.

After adding the component and its attributes, click **SAVE CONFIG**.

Wait for the robot to reload, and then go to the **CONTROL** tab to test the stream of detections.

## Code

> The following code gets the robot’s Vision Service and then runs a classifier vision model on an image from the robot's camera named `"camera_1"` in this example.

Author: ```suggestion
The following code gets the robot’s Vision Service and then runs a classifier vision model on an image from the robot's camera `"camera_1"`:
```

---
title: "Classification (or 2D image classification)"
linkTitle: "Classification"
weight: 20
type: "docs"
description: "Select an algorithm that outputs a class label and confidence score associated with a 2D image."
tags: ["vision", "computer vision", "CV", "services", "classification"]
# SMEs: Bijan, Khari
---

_2D Image Classification_ is the process of taking a 2D image from a camera and deciding which class label, out of many, best describes the given image.
Any camera that can return 2D images can use 2D image classification.

> Which class labels may be considered for classification varies and will depend on the machine learning model and how it was trained.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The class labels used for classification vary and depend on the machine learning model and how it was trained.
```
Not sure whether this is correct, but the current sentence seems a bit awk and vague--"may be considered" seems ambiguous. Is it that some models are unable to consider some labels due to features of the class? Or is it that some models just haven't been trained on certain classes?

The returned classifications consist of the image's class label and confidence score.

* `class_name` (string): specifies the label of the found object.
* `confidence` (float): specifies the confidence of the assigned label.
  Between `0.0` and `1.0`, inclusive.

## Classifier Types

The types of classifiers supported are:

> * **tflite_classifier**: a machine-learning based classifier that returns a class label and confidence score according to the specified `tensorflow-lite` model file available on the robot’s hard drive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **tflite_classifier**: a machine-learning-based classifier that returns a class label and confidence score according to the specified `tensorflow-lite` model file available on the robot’s hard drive.
```
or perhaps
```suggestion
* **tflite_classifier**: a machine learning-based classifier that returns a class label and confidence score according to the specified `tensorflow-lite` model file available on the robot’s hard drive.
```
Machine learning wouldn't be hyphenated if it weren't part of the compound adjective (with "based"), I think

            {
              "name": "my_color_detector",
              "type": "color_detector",
              "parameters": {
                "detect_color" : "#A3E2FF",
                "hue_tolerance_pct": 0.06,
                "segment_size_px": 100
              }
            },
            {
              "name": "my_classifier",
              "type": "tflite_classifier",
              "parameters": {
                "model_path" : "/path/to/model.tflite",
                "label_path": "/path/to/labels.txt",
                "num_threads": 1
              }
            },
            {
                "name": "my_segmenter",
                "type": "radius_clustering_segmenter",
                "parameters": {
                    "min_points_in_plane": 2,
                    "min_points_in_segment": 2,
                    "clustering_radius_mm": 3.0,
                    "mean_k_filtering": 0
                }
            }
          ]
        }
    }
]
```

{{% /expand%}}

### Add a camera component and a "transform" model

You cannot interact directly with the [Vision Service](/services/vision/).
To be able to interact with the Vision Service you must:

> 1. Configure a physical [camera component](../../../components/camera) to wrap the service.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Configure a physical [camera component](../../../components/camera).
```

2. Configure a [transform camera](../../../components/camera/transform) to view output from the classifier overlaid on images from the physical camera.

After adding the component and its attributes, click **SAVE CONFIG**.

Wait for the robot to reload, and then go to the **CONTROL** tab to test the stream of detections.

## Code

The following code gets the robot’s Vision Service and then runs a classifier vision model on an image from the robot's camera `"camera_1"`:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
from viam.services.vision import VisionServiceClient, VisModelConfig, VisModelType

robot = await connect()
# grab camera from the robot
cam1 = Camera.from_robot(robot, "cam1")
# grab Viam's vision service which has the classifier already registered
vision = VisionServiceClient.from_robot(robot)

print("Vision Resources:")
print(await vision.get_classifier_names())

# Apply the classifier configured as "my_classifier" to the image from your camera configured as "camera_1"
classifications = await vision.get_classifications_from_camera("camera_1", "my_classifier")

await robot.close()
```

> To learn more about the Classification API, see the [Python SDK docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/services/vision/index.html).

Reviewer 2: Why is "Classification API" capitalized? It seems like it shouldn't be?

Author: ```suggestion
To learn more about how to use classification, see the [Python SDK docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/services/vision/index.html).
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
import (
"go.viam.com/rdk/config"
"go.viam.com/rdk/services/vision"
)

visService, err := vision.FirstFromRobot(robot)
if err != nil {
    logger.Fatalf("Cannot get Vision Service: %v", err)
}

clsNames, err := visService.ClassifierNames(context.Background(), nil)
if err != nil {
    logger.Fatalf("Could not list classifiers: %v", err)
}
logger.Info("Vision Resources:")
logger.Info(clsNames)

// Apply the color classifier to the image from your camera (configured as "camera_1")
classifications, err := visService.ClassificationsFromCamera(context.Background(), "camera_1", "my_classifier", nil)
if err != nil {
    logger.Fatalf("Could not get classifications: %v", err)
}
if len(classifications) > 0 {
    logger.Info(classifications[0])
}
```

> To learn more about the Classification API, see the [Go SDK docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/vision).

Author: ```suggestion
To learn more about how to use classification, see the [Go SDK docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/vision).
```
